posts_tmp/2015-03-22-Jekyll_en.md, before:

---
title: Jekyll
layout: default
---
#Jekyll

Jekyll is a very simple static web generator wich makes easir just to focus in the importat thing, our web content rather than coding. It is specially design for blogging and it allows to use GitHub as a hosting platform, the result is a very simple tool wich takes advantage of GitHub's version control and allows people to create blogs in a very simple way using static HTML, it elimites the complexity of other tools such as WordPress or Mephisto which needs to manage DDBB and other issues, an we only need to care about creating our content creating simple text file in Textile (["Markdown"](http://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown "Markdown")).

To know more about Jekyll you can check this interesting post from its creator, Tom Preston [Blogging Like a Hacker](http://tom.preston-werner.com/2008/11/17/blogging-like-a-hacker.html "Blogging Like a Hacker").

You can visit Jekyll's official [web](http://jekyllrb.com/ "Jekyll") and follow the installation tutorial, and probably you will get a wrong impression, it is not as easy  at seems, truth to be told if we want to isntall Jekyll locally and deploy a web, things get complicated, so that I am going to try to explain the whole process I made explaning the doubts I had got and the problem I had.


## Installation

GitHub allows to host public webs, it is free and the use github.io as a domain, in case you account to be a free account the complete domain name may be something like this **user.github.io**

We can create two kinds of webs: user and project, both are quite similar and both are deployed almost in the same way, user webs are hosted in a exclusive repository only for the web, and use the master branch to generate web contect, in the other hand, proyect webs are thought to share the repository with another proyect, in that case the contet will be generated from the **gh-pages** branch.

We are going to use *github-pages* a tool provided by GitHub, it is a Ruby ge, in other words a Ruby package, ant will make thing easier to manage Jekyll and its dependecies avoiding version problems when deploying the web.

So far, so good, now we are going to follow step by step the tutorial provided by GitHub to use github-pages: [GitHub Pages](https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages/ "GitHub Pages"):

### Requirements:

##### **1. Ruby**:

I am using Ubuntu 12.04 wich already comes with [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/es/ "Ruby") 1.8, we can easily cheack this with the following command line:

`$ ruby --version`

Jekyll needs version 1.9.3 or higher so ir need to be updated, to avoid configuration rpoblems a version clash, it is recommend to use RVM to manage and update our Ruby enviroment, probably pur first thought will be to use the traditiona package manager that comes with Linuc '$ apt-get', but this constraints us to check depencies, version and [gems](http://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/RubyGems "gems") conflicts, RVM safe us of all these worries and we can change Ruby version in a fast and easy way, it allows us to work in multiple Ruby enviroments independet and self-contained from each other.

###### Installing RVM:

1. First we need to isntall curl,you can find more inormation about curl [here](http://linux.about.com/od/commands/l/blcmdl1_curl.htm "curl"):

	`$ Apt-get install curl`

2. To download RVM:

    `$ url -sSL https://get.rvm.io | bash -s stable`

	In case you have any problems with the signatura, follow the [steps in its web](https://rvm.io/ "firma RVM") in its web

3. And now using RVM we can install and configure the Ruby version we need:

    `$ RVM isntall ruby-2.0`
	`$ RVM use ruby-2.0`

4. And last but not least, let's check everything work out:

    `$ ruby --version`
    `ruby 2.0.xxxxx`

So far, so good, we already have install the Ruby version we need, and also some usefull tools like RVM, a command-line tool which allows you to easily install, manage, and work with multiple ruby environments from interpreters to sets of gems, wich personally I didn't know before and I found very usefull.


#### **2. Bundler**:

Bundler is a package manager for Ruby, provides a consistent environment for Ruby projects by tracking and installing the exact gems and versions that are needed. We just need to create and edit a file in our project root path called *Gemfile* where we specify the source to download the gems and the gems we want to download, from here Bundlaer takes care of the whole process to detect and isntall the specified gems.

To install Bundler:

1. Bundle is a gem, so to istall it we write in a console:

	`$ gem install bundler`

#### **3. Jekyll**:

We are going to use GitHub Pages to host the web, so that the first step is to a have a GitHUb repository and clone it in our machine, we have already talk about the different kind of web we can generate usin g GitHUb pages, user or proyect, in this case we are generating a user web (remember to work in the master branch), so we name the repository as follows: **username.github.io**, once it is created we clone it.

`$ git clone https://github.com/username/username.github.io`

In order to avoid dependency managment, even in the GitHub Pages server as well as in our local enviroment (Markdown and other Jehkyll dependecies), we follow the recomendation given by the Jekyll's official web page and we use the gem given by GitHub called **github-pages** wich will handle all depencies for us, to install it weuse Bundler, we only need to create a text file called **Gemfile** in the root of repository and we indicate wich gems we want to dowload and the source, in our case:


>  source 'https://rubygems.org'

>  gem 'github-pages'

### Running Jekyll

ok, we have installed all the requiremnts in our local enviroment, so now lets try everything.
Running Jekyll is very easy, we are goint to use Bundler throught the console using the *exec* command wich uses the gems already specified in the *Gemfile*.

`$ bundle exec jekyll serve`

If everythign worked out we should be able to check our page http://localhost:4000

### Conclusion
Por ahora sólo he usado Jekyll durante unos días, lo justo para generar este blog y escribir este post, la sensación que he tenido es que la documentación disponible en la pagina de Jekyll, así como en GitHub, esta un poco desorganizada y durante el proceso de instalación encontré bastantes dificultades, pero el resultado tras un par de tardes de trabajo ha sido mas que satisfactorio, descubriendo el potencial de Jekyll y bastantes herramienta como RVM que serán muy útiles.

Aquí concluimos con el proceso de instalación y ejecución de Jekyll, en el siguiente post cubriremos como configurarlo, editar la apariencia del blog y generar contenido.

Muchas gracias por leer este post y espero que haya sido de utilidad.

###### Referencias:

* Jekyll: [http://jekyllrb.com/](http://jekyllrb.com/ "Jekyll").
* Using Jekyll with Pages: [https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages/](https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages/ "Using Jekyll with Pages").
* Jekyll by example: [https://www.andrewmunsell.com/tutorials/jekyll-by-example/tutorial](https://www.andrewmunsell.com/tutorials/jekyll-by-example/tutorial "Jekyll by example")

Commit message:

English translation finished, pending to add problem shooting and typo/grammar correction

posts_tmp/2015-03-22-Jekyll_en.md, after:

---
title: Jekyll
layout: default
---
#Jekyll

Jekyll is a very simple static web generator wich makes easir just to focus in the importat thing, our web content rather than coding. It is specially design for blogging and it allows to use GitHub as a hosting platform, the result is a very simple tool wich takes advantage of GitHub's version control and allows people to create blogs in a very simple way using static HTML, it elimites the complexity of other tools such as WordPress or Mephisto which needs to manage DDBB and other issues, an we only need to care about creating our content creating simple text file in Textile (["Markdown"](http://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown "Markdown")).

To know more about Jekyll you can check this interesting post from its creator, Tom Preston [Blogging Like a Hacker](http://tom.preston-werner.com/2008/11/17/blogging-like-a-hacker.html "Blogging Like a Hacker").

You can visit Jekyll's official [web](http://jekyllrb.com/ "Jekyll") and follow the installation tutorial, and probably you will get a wrong impression, it is not as easy  at seems, truth to be told if we want to isntall Jekyll locally and deploy a web, things get complicated, so that I am going to try to explain the whole process I made explaning the doubts I had got and the problem I had.


## Installation

GitHub allows to host public webs, it is free and the use github.io as a domain, in case you account to be a free account the complete domain name may be something like this **user.github.io**

We can create two kinds of webs: user and project, both are quite similar and both are deployed almost in the same way, user webs are hosted in a exclusive repository only for the web, and use the master branch to generate web contect, in the other hand, proyect webs are thought to share the repository with another proyect, in that case the contet will be generated from the **gh-pages** branch.

We are going to use *github-pages* a tool provided by GitHub, it is a Ruby ge, in other words a Ruby package, ant will make thing easier to manage Jekyll and its dependecies avoiding version problems when deploying the web.

So far, so good, now we are going to follow step by step the tutorial provided by GitHub to use github-pages: [GitHub Pages](https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages/ "GitHub Pages"):

### Requirements:

##### **1. Ruby**:

I am using Ubuntu 12.04 wich already comes with [Ruby](https://www.ruby-lang.org/es/ "Ruby") 1.8, we can easily cheack this with the following command line:

`$ ruby --version`

Jekyll needs version 1.9.3 or higher so ir need to be updated, to avoid configuration rpoblems a version clash, it is recommend to use RVM to manage and update our Ruby enviroment, probably pur first thought will be to use the traditiona package manager that comes with Linuc '$ apt-get', but this constraints us to check depencies, version and [gems](http://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/RubyGems "gems") conflicts, RVM safe us of all these worries and we can change Ruby version in a fast and easy way, it allows us to work in multiple Ruby enviroments independet and self-contained from each other.

###### Installing RVM:

1. First we need to isntall curl,you can find more inormation about curl [here](http://linux.about.com/od/commands/l/blcmdl1_curl.htm "curl"):

	`$ Apt-get install curl`

2. To download RVM:

    `$ url -sSL https://get.rvm.io | bash -s stable`

	In case you have any problems with the signatura, follow the [steps in its web](https://rvm.io/ "firma RVM") in its web

3. And now using RVM we can install and configure the Ruby version we need:

    `$ RVM isntall ruby-2.0`
	`$ RVM use ruby-2.0`

4. And last but not least, let's check everything work out:

    `$ ruby --version`
    `ruby 2.0.xxxxx`

So far, so good, we already have install the Ruby version we need, and also some usefull tools like RVM, a command-line tool which allows you to easily install, manage, and work with multiple ruby environments from interpreters to sets of gems, wich personally I didn't know before and I found very usefull.


#### **2. Bundler**:

Bundler is a package manager for Ruby, provides a consistent environment for Ruby projects by tracking and installing the exact gems and versions that are needed. We just need to create and edit a file in our project root path called *Gemfile* where we specify the source to download the gems and the gems we want to download, from here Bundlaer takes care of the whole process to detect and isntall the specified gems.

To install Bundler:

1. Bundle is a gem, so to istall it we write in a console:

	`$ gem install bundler`

#### **3. Jekyll**:

We are going to use GitHub Pages to host the web, so that the first step is to a have a GitHUb repository and clone it in our machine, we have already talk about the different kind of web we can generate usin g GitHUb pages, user or proyect, in this case we are generating a user web (remember to work in the master branch), so we name the repository as follows: **username.github.io**, once it is created we clone it.

`$ git clone https://github.com/username/username.github.io`

In order to avoid dependency managment, even in the GitHub Pages server as well as in our local enviroment (Markdown and other Jehkyll dependecies), we follow the recomendation given by the Jekyll's official web page and we use the gem given by GitHub called **github-pages** wich will handle all depencies for us, to install it weuse Bundler, we only need to create a text file called **Gemfile** in the root of repository and we indicate wich gems we want to dowload and the source, in our case:


>  source 'https://rubygems.org'

>  gem 'github-pages'

### Running Jekyll

Ok, we have installed all the requiremnts in our local enviroment, so now lets try everything.
Running Jekyll is very easy, we are goint to use Bundler throught the console using the *exec* command wich uses the gems already specified in the *Gemfile*.

`$ bundle exec jekyll serve`

If everythign worked out we should be able to check our page http://localhost:4000

### Conclusion

So far I have used Jekyll a cuple a days to create this blog and write this post, I found it as a very powerfull tool that avoid the user to take care of thngs such us DDBB or PHP, whihc is very very usefull. Maybe the most annoying thing is the official documentation, whihc I thing is scattered and desorganized, but just after a cuple of working afternoons the feelings get better and better once the installation process have finished.

Here we conclude with the Jekyll installation process, in the following post I planned to cover how to configure it, edit its appereance and generate content.

Thanks for reading and I hope you find it useful.

###### References:

* Jekyll: [http://jekyllrb.com/](http://jekyllrb.com/ "Jekyll").
* Using Jekyll with Pages: [https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages/](https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages/ "Using Jekyll with Pages").
* Jekyll by example: [https://www.andrewmunsell.com/tutorials/jekyll-by-example/tutorial](https://www.andrewmunsell.com/tutorials/jekyll-by-example/tutorial "Jekyll by example")
